You can create a custom annotation to validate a field.
Spring Root provides many standard annotations.
You already use the not to blank annotation, but sometimes what you're trying to validate is very specialized.
For example, if I want to check if the score is a letter grade between plus to F, this requires a
custom constraint annotation unless there's some standard annotation that exists that I don't know about.
But as far as I know, this behavior is specialized and we need custom validation logic.
So in this lesson you will create a custom annotation for the score.
Now the process is relatively simple.
You need two things for a custom constraint annotation.
You can define an annotation using the at interface keyword.
And then you need to connect your annotation to validation logic.
So we'll start with step one, creating the annotation using the at interface keyword.
So the first step is to say public at interface followed by what you want to name your annotation.
And then for every annotation you have to define a target.
The target means where is this annotation going to be applied?
Will you apply it to methods?
Will you apply it to fields?
Will you apply it to classes?
To constructors?
You also need to define a retention of runtime because we would want this annotation to be retained
while we're running the application.
So this is how you would define any annotation in Spring Boots.
Let's go ahead and do just that.
We'll say we'll create a new file.
Call it scorched java.
All right.
As I create this class, it says public class core.
But because we're creating an annotation, we have to say public act, interface score.
First thing you have to define is the target.
What will this annotation bind to?
Is it going to bind to constructors?
Is it going to bind to methods to fields?
In this case, it's just going to bind to fields.
Then we have to define the retention policy because we want this annotation to be retained during the
runtime.
This is how you would define any annotation in spring.
So now we can go ahead and apply this annotation to the score field.
So we'll just say add score.
All right.
Now, notice that I keep calling this annotation as opposed to a constraint validation annotation because
we haven't applied any logic for this to be considered a constraint.
Constraint annotations are more specialized in that.
You need to also explicitly specify that this is a constraint.
And then here is where you would connect this constraint to validation logic.
So here I have to actually specify that this annotation will actually serve as a constraint.
All right.
And I need to connect this constraint annotation to a class that implements a validation logic.
The way to do that is to write out the class name.
In this case, I'm going to call my class score validator and follow this up with class.
Now, the score validator class does not exist yet, so I'm going to have to do is create a new file
called score validator dot Java.
Oh.
I need to follow this up with a validated by.
Is equal to all the right.
So this leads us to step two, which is to actually connect our constraint annotation to validation
logic.
We've already connected it to a validator class which to put some logic into it.
So the first thing you have to do to create a validator class is to implement the constraint validator
interface.
The first parameter refers to the annotation type, and the second parameter is the type of value that
we're validating.
So here we're going to have to implement.
The constraint validator interface, the constraint validator whose definition you can travel to expects
to parameters.
So if you're using a mac, press the command key.
If you're using a Windows Press the control key, this applies to IntelliJ or VTS code.
Click on the interface and you can see it expects to parameters.
The first parameter is the annotation that you're validating in this case score.
The second parameter is the type of value that you're validating.
So we'll say the annotation is scored.
And the type of value is string.
Splendid.
Now, if you remember from my Java boot camp, an interface is a contract of behavior.
This was explained, I believe, in the polymorphism section and what a interface does is it defines
methods that a class needs to override.
In this case, the method is is valid.
So go back here and override is valid.
This method is really important because it's the heart of where the validation is actually happening.
This method needs to return true if the score inputted by the user.
If that value equals a letter grade from A+ to F.
Otherwise it must return false meaning that there are errors.
So what I'll start by doing is I will create a list.
String values.
We'll call it scores is equal to arrays dot as list.
And I'll say a plus.
Uh, a a minus.
I'll have to copy this.
One, two, three, four times.
Here we can just say F, here we'll say B plus, b b minus.
C.
Minus D minus d, d plus.
Don't forget our comas.
All right.
And now I can create a simple for loop that compares the value inputted by the user against each value
here.
So I'll say for.
Each to iterate over each string and the score is list.
And I'll say if the value inputted by the user, make sure to use the equals method, not the equals
equals operator.
Because we're dealing with strings here if the value equals one of the letter grades.
Then we'll return.
True.
Otherwise return false.
And I think we're done.
You created a custom constraint annotation and then you connected it to a validator that implements
the validation logic.
This is how you would create any constraint annotation in Spring Boot.
Now there's just one last thing I need to address, and that is inside of your resources folder.
I left you some code.
I want you to pause the video and copy it over here.
Now before we panic, I just want to say that in accordance with the spring boot documentation, when
you're defining a constraint annotation, you must always define the groups and the payload parameters.
Don't be frightened.
Just know that when you're creating a constraint annotation, you must always include these.
The message parameter is interesting because what this does is if the user violates this constraint,
then our binding result will retain this default error message.
But we're actually going to override this message as we did before.
And we'll say Score must be a letter grid.
So don't panic too much.
I would just consider these boilerplate code that you need to include.
All right.
And now we have constraint annotations bound to each field.
So when our handler method receives the post request, valid is going to validate three fields inside
of our grade object, and the binding result is going to carry the result of that validation.
It will carry the results for name, subject and score, and it's going to send all of that data back
to form.
Here we're catching the error for the field name.
Here we're catching the error for the subject field.
We're going to catch the error for the score field as well.
All right.
If I go ahead and run the application now.
We'll say local host.
80, 80.
Um.
Leave the name blank.
Leave the score.
You know what?
Here, we'll say our plus.
That's the example I typically default to.
We'll leave the subject blank.
Press submit.
Nice name.
Cannot be blank score.
Must be a letter grade and subject.
Cannot be blank.
The valid annotation uses the logic that we defined inside of the score validator to check if the value
that was inputted by the user.
Is it valid or not in this case is valid.
Returned false.
So valid determined that there was an error and that error is eventually carried by the binding result
sent over to our form and our belief errors.
Attribute catches that error and displays it to the user.
That's all you added a constraint for each field, one custom constraint and two default ones.
Stick around for the breakpoint session for a full recap.